# PokeHash: Pokémon Hashing Application
This repository contains the implementation of `PokeHash`, an extendible hashing application designed for storing Pokémon data. PokeHash allows Pokémon Trainers to efficiently manage and organize their collection using an in-memory hash table. It offers features such as adding Pokémon, deleting Pokémon, searching for specific Pokémon, and printing the complete table structure.


## Overview
PokeHash was developed as part of CENG351 Data Management & File Structures course project. The assignment aimed to create an extendible hashing application using a hash table to store Pokémon. The implementation consists of several classes, including `CengBucket`, `CengBucketList`, `CengPoke`, `CengPokeParser`, `CengHashRow`, and `CengHashTable`. The application is designed to be run from the command line. The user can enter commands to perform operations on the hash table. The commands are parsed and executed by the application. The application is written in Java and uses Java (Version 13) features. 


## Usage
To run the PokeHash application, follow these steps:

1. Compile the Java source files:
```
javac *.java
```

2. Run the PokeHash application:
```
java CengPokeKeeper <hashMod> <bucketSize> <inputFileName> <enableGUI>
```

- `<hashMod>`: An integer value representing the hash modulus. 1 and will be 2^n format.
- `<bucketSize>`: An integer value indicating the maximum number of Pokémon each bucket can hold.
- `<inputFileName>`: The name of the input file containing Pokémon data (required for GUI, but not tested).
- `<enableGUI>`: A boolean value (True or False) indicating whether to enable the GUI (optional).

Example:
```
java CengPokeKeeper 8 2 pokemons.txt True
```

3. Use the command-line interface to interact with the PokeHash application. Enter commands such as add, delete, search, print, or quit to perform various operations.

## Commands
PokeHash supports the following commands:

1. Add Pokémon: Add a new Pokémon to the hash table.
```
add -pokeKey- -pokeName- -pokePower- -pokeType-
```

2. Delete Pokémon: Delete a Pokémon from the hash table.
```
delete -pokeKey-
```

3. Search Pokémon: Search for a Pokémon in the hash table.
```
search -pokeKey-
```

4. Print Table: Print the complete table structure.
```
print
```

5. Quit: Exit the application.
```
quit
``` 

## Input and Output Files
The repository includes input and expected output files that can be used to test the PokeHash application:

- `<inputs>` folder: Contains a series of commands to be executed by the PokeHash application.
- `<expected_output>` folder: Provides the expected output corresponding to the commands in the input `.txt` files.

## Output Format
The output generated by PokeHash follows a JSON-like format. It provides information about Pokémon, buckets, rows, and the overall table structure. 


## Disclaimer
Please note that this implementation may contain limitations, potential bugs, and dependencies on external libraries and tools. While efforts have been made to ensure correctness, there is no guarantee of flawless execution. Exercise caution, conduct thorough testing, and adapt the code to your requirements. Report issues on GitHub and contribute to improvements. Use responsibly, validate results, and the authors disclaim liability for any damages or issues arising from the use of this code.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you have any suggestions or improvements, feel free to submit a pull request or open an issue in the GitHub repository.

